# Red Team Fundamentals
## Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Tests Limitations
### Penetration Tests
- Attempt to **exploit** the vulnerabilities found on each system.
- Conduct **post-exploitation** tasks on any compromised host, allowing us to find if we can extract any helpful information from them or if we might use them to pivot to other hosts that were not previously accessible from where we stand.

### Advanced Persistent Threats and why Regular Pentesting is not Enough
Some limitations are:
- Time Constraints.
- Budget.
- Limited Scope.
- Non-Disruptive.
- Heavy IT focus.
As a consequence, some aspects of penetration tests might significantly differ from a real attack, like:
-   **Penetration tests are LOUD:** Usually, pentesters won't put much effort into trying to go undetected.
- **Non-technical attack vectors might be overlooked:** Attacks based on social engineering or physical intrusions are usually not included in what is tested.
- **Relaxation of security mechanisms:** While doing a regular penetration test, some security mechanisms might be temporarily disabled or relaxed for the pentesting team in favor of efficiency. Although this might sound counterintuitive, it is essential to remember that pentesters have limited time to check the network. Therefore, it is usually desired not to waste their time searching for exotic ways to bypass IDS/IPS, WAF, intrusion deception or other security measures, but rather focus on reviewing critical technological infrastructure for vulnerabilities.

On the other hand, real attackers won't follow an ethical code and are mostly unrestricted in their actions. Nowadays, the most prominent threat actors are known as **Advanced Persistent Threats (APT)**, which are highly skilled groups of attackers, usually sponsored by nations or organised criminal groups.

